Interstellar is a 2014 epic science fiction film directed by Christopher Nolan and starring Matthew McConaughey, Anne Hathaway, Jessica Chastain and Michael Caine. The film features a crew of astronauts who travel through a wormhole in search of a new home for humanity. Brothers Christopher and Jonathan Nolan wrote the screenplay, which has its origins in a script Jonathan developed in 2007. Christopher Nolan produced the film with his wife Emma Thomas through their production company Syncopy and with Lynda Obst through Lynda Obst Productions. Caltech theoretical physicist Kip Thorne, whose work inspired the film, was an executive producer and acted as scientific consultant. Warner Bros., Paramount Pictures, and Legendary Pictures co-financed the film.

Cinematographer Hoyte van Hoytema shot the film on anamorphic 35 mm and IMAX 70 mm photography. Filming commenced in late 2013 in Alberta, Iceland, and Los Angeles. The film features an extensive use of practical and miniature effects, while Double Negative created additional digital effects.

Interstellar premiered on October 26, 2014, in Los Angeles. In North America, it was released in film stock, expanding to venues using digital projectors. The film was successful at the box office with a worldwide gross of over $672 million, and received positive reviews from critics, who gave particular praise to the film's scientific accuracy, science fiction themes, musical score, visual effects and performances from McConaughey, Hathaway, Chastain, and Mackenzie Foy. At the 87th Academy Awards, the film won the Best Visual Effects award and was also nominated for Best Original Score, Best Sound Mixing, Best Sound Editing and Best Production Design. The film also received several other awards and nominations particularly for its visual effects, cinematography, musical score.

Contents  [hide] 
1 Plot
2 Cast
3 Production
3.1 Development and financing
3.2 Writing and casting
3.3 Filming
3.4 Production design
3.5 Sound design and music
3.6 Visual effects
4 Influences
5 Scientific accuracy
5.1 Wormholes and black holes
6 Marketing
7 Release
7.1 Theatrical run
7.2 Home media
8 Reception
8.1 Box office
8.2 Critical reception
8.3 Top ten lists
9 Accolades
10 See also
11 Notes
12 References
13 Further reading
14 External links
Plot[edit]
In 2065 crop blight has caused civilization to regress into a failing agrarian society. A widowed former pilot, Cooper, runs a farm with his father-in-law, son and young daughter, Murphy, who believes her room is haunted by a poltergeist trying to communicate by throwing books off her shelf. Cooper concludes Murphy's "ghost" is an unknown intelligence using gravitational waves to send a set of binary coordinates in the dust. These direct them to a secret NASA installation.

There, they meet one of Cooper's college professors, Dr. John Brand, who reveals that a wormhole, apparently created by an unknown alien intelligence, has been found near Saturn and leads to new planets in a distant galaxy. NASA has already sent through twelve astronauts led by Dr. Hugh Mann to identify habitable worlds. Three of the missions are sending back encouraging results; Miller, Edmunds and Mann, orbiting a supermassive black hole named Gargantua. Brand recruits Cooper to pilot the spacecraft Endurance to recover the scientists' data on the planets, while he continues to work on harnessing gravity for propulsion, to allow the world's entire population to leave Earth towards a habitable world. As "Plan B", Endurance carries 5,000 frozen embryos to establish the human race on a new planet. Cooper's decision to accept devastates Murphy, and they part on bad terms.

Cooper's Endurance crew consists of Brand's daughter Amelia, scientists Romilly and Doyle, and robots TARS and CASE. Traversing the wormhole, they head to Miller's planet, an ocean world where time on the planet is severely dilated such that one hour there means seven years. Amelia tries to recover Miller's data box but they discover the "mountains" in the distance are actually massive tidal waves. Doyle sacrifices himself to get Amelia aboard; the lander's engines are waterlogged from the first wave, but they escape the second one. By the time Cooper and Amelia return to Endurance, 23 years have passed.

The now adult Murphy works for NASA, assisting Brand with his equation to harness gravity. Before dying, Brand admits to her that he solved the equation long ago and deemed it impossible, lying to the NASA team to keep their hopes alive while their work on Endurance allowed for "Plan B". Murphy keeps working on the problem, concluding the equation could be balanced if more information from Gargantua's singularity could be retrieved. Low on fuel, Endurance can only visit one more planet before returning to Earth. Amelia suggests Edmunds' planet, however the rest of the team chooses Mann's as he is still transmitting and Cooper suspects that Amelia is motivated by her feelings for Edmund. Mann's planet is covered by large frozen ammonia clouds, but Mann assures the team that the surface underneath is habitable. However, during the expedition, he turns on Cooper, cracking the latter's visor and revealing that his data was a sham so he could get rescued. Meanwhile, Romilly discovers Mann's data was flawed, but is killed by a bomb Mann planted in his robot companion to hide his secret.

Amelia rescues Cooper using a lander and they return to Endurance, where they witness Mann unsuccessfully attempting to dock. The airlock depressurises, killing Mann and causing severe damage to Endurance. Cooper manages to stabilise the vessel from falling out of orbit. Using the black hole's gravity as a slingshot, they plot a course to Edmunds' planet, while another 51 years pass on Earth. However, Cooper and TARS jettison themselves into the black hole so that Amelia and the Endurance can escape. Cooper plunges into the black hole, but surprisingly ends up in a five-dimensional space/tesseract that looks like a stream of bookshelves. He sees Murphy as a child and tries to communicate with her, eventually realizing that he was the "ghost" who had used gravity to push the books out and to manipulate the dust patterns. He then relays the quantum data on the black hole from TARS in a Morse code message by manipulating the second hand of a watch he gave to Murphy before he left. Murphy notices the anomalous behaviour of the second hand of the watch, realizes that it is being used to communicate data, and uses it to solve the equation.

When the tesseract collapses, Cooper finds himself traveling through a wormhole. He passes the outbound Endurance in an earlier time and briefly touches hands with Amelia (an unexplained incident shown earlier in the film). He awakens aboard a space habitat orbiting Saturn where he reunites with Murphy, now elderly and on her deathbed after having led humanity's exodus. Satisfied that Cooper has kept his promise to return, she convinces him to leave and find Amelia. He takes TARS with him in a small spacecraft and heads through the wormhole toward Edmunds' planet, where Amelia and CASE have set up a base camp and have concluded it is suitable for human settlement.

Cast[edit]
Matthew McConaughey
Anne Hathaway
Matthew McConaughey and Anne Hathaway star as Cooper and Dr. Amelia Brand respectively.
Matthew McConaughey as Joseph "Coop" Cooper, a widowed father of two, former pilot, NASA astronaut and engineer.
Anne Hathaway as Dr. Amelia Brand, a biotechnologist and the daughter of Dr. John Brand.
Jessica Chastain as Murphy "Murph" Cooper
Mackenzie Foy as young Murphy
Ellen Burstyn as elderly Murphy
John Lithgow as Donald, Cooper's father-in-law
Michael Caine as Dr. John Brand
Casey Affleck as Tom Cooper, Murphy's brother
Timothée Chalamet as young Tom
Wes Bentley as Dr. Doyle
Bill Irwin as TARS (voice and puppetry) and CASE (puppetry)
Topher Grace as Getty, a NASA doctor and Murphy's boyfriend
David Gyasi as Dr. Nikolai "Rom" Romilly
Josh Stewart as CASE (voice)
Matt Damon as Dr. Hugh Mann
Leah Cairns as Lois Cooper, Tom's wife
David Oyelowo as Tom's and Murphy's school principal
Collette Wolfe as Ms. Hanley, Murphy's teacher
William Devane as Williams, a NASA board member
Elyes Gabel as the NASA Administrator
